OKTA-528021 update mobile sdk overview for 3.0 SDK (#4163)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/mobile-idx-sdk-overview/main/index.md

title: Overview of the mobile Identity Engine SDK
---

> Design the implementation of sign-in for your mobile app by understanding the objects and messages that represent the sign-in flow.

Author: Updated. Change in next commit.

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

## Introduction

> There are two ways to use Okta for sign-in in your app:

Author: How about:

> There are two ways to use Okta services for user sign-in in your app:

> There are two ways to use Okta services for user sign-in in your app:

Reviewer: sign-in isn't a noun
```suggestion
There are two ways to use Okta services to sign a user in to your app:
```

Author: Made the change. It's in the next commit.

## Sign-in flow

> Okta supports many different __authenticators__ for identifying a user during the sign-in flow, such as a password or fingerprint. Responding to each authenticator is a step in the sign-in flow. Many flows require multiple __factors__ (multifactor authentication), the type of an authenticator. For example, a fingerprint is a biometric factor and a USB Token is a possession factor.

Author: AFAIK authenticator and factor are orthogonal concepts, or to be more precise, a factor is one attribute of an authenticator. The text above makes it sound like they are synonymous. Also, MFA doesn't require each authenticator to have a different type, only that the specified number of factors are used. For example, if the policy requires 3 authenticators and two factors are then knowledge (password) and biometric (fingerprint) satisfy that MFA. The third authenticator can be another knowledge of biometric factor.

I made a suggested change above in the original comment (and closing this one so we can preserve the chain.)

## Sign-in flow

> Okta supports many ways of authenticating the identity of a user during the sign-in flow. An Okta org administrator creates _policies_, different mixes of *authenticators*, or ways of verifying the identity of a user, and assigns them to apps, people, groups, and more. Policies also configure whether an authenticator is required or optional, as well as the minimum number of authenticators required for a successful sign-in. Responding to each authenticator is a step in the sign-in flow. Many flows require multiple *factors* (multifactor authentication), the category of an authenticator. Factors include: biometrics, such as a fingerprint; knowledge, such as a password; and more. This effectively results in an infinite number of combinations of authenticators and the order in which they're presented.

Reviewer: Style guide would say never use italics. Please just use bold. On an additional note, markdown here sees _this_ and *this* both as italics rather than __this__ and **this** which are bold. So if you were trying to mix things up, it didn't work.

Also, an authenticator is the same as an authentication factor in this paragraph. The authentication factor type is biometric, knowledge, possession, etc

```suggestion
Okta supports many ways of authenticating the identity of a user during the sign-in flow. An Okta org administrator creates **policies**. Each policy sets different mixes of **authenticators**, or ways of verifying the identity of a user, and assigns them to apps, groups, and more. Policies also configure if an authenticator is required or optional, and the minimum number of authenticators required to sign in successfully. Responding to each authenticator is a step in the sign-in flow. Many flows require multiple *factors* (multifactor authentication), the category of an authenticator. Factors include: biometrics, such as a fingerprint; knowledge, such as a password; and more. This effectively results in an infinite number of combinations of authenticators and the order in which they're presented.
```

Author: I reorganized this by starting with authenticators and working up to policies. I also split the paragraph in 2 as it was a bit lengthy. Is this OK?

> Okta supports many different __authenticators__ for identifying a user during the sign-in flow, such as a password or fingerprint. Responding to each authenticator is a step in the sign-in flow. Many flows require multiple __factors__ (multifactor authentication), the type of an authenticator. For example, a fingerprint is a biometric factor and a USB Token is a possession factor.
> 
> An Okta org administrator creates __policies__, different mixes of authenticators, and assigns them to apps, people, groups, and more. Policies also configure whether an authenticator is required or optional, as well as the minimum number of authenticators required for a successful sign-in. This effectively results in an infinite number of combinations of authenticators and the order in which they're presented.
>

Author: How about this change:
> Some flows can require multiple __factors__ (multifactor authentication). A factor is the type of an authenticator, such as a fingerprint for a biometric factor and a USB Token for a possession factor.

> The Android and Swift Identity Engine SDKs represent the sign-in flow as a state machine. You initialize the machine with the details of the Okta org application integration, request the initial step in the flow, and cycle through responding to steps until either the user signs in, cancels, or an error occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Android and Swift Identity Engine SDKs represent the sign-in flow as a state machine. You initialize the machine with the details of an Okta org application integration, request the initial step in the flow, and cycle through responding to steps until either the user signs in, cancels, or an error occurs.
```

Author: Change made. It will be in the next commit

</div>

- **Response:** The top-level object that represents a step and contains all the other objects. It includes a property that indicates a successful sign-in and functions for cancelling the sign-in flow or retrieving the access token after the sign-in flow succeeds. A response may contain multiple authenticators and remediations.
- **Remediation:** Represents the main user actions for a step, such as enrolling in an authenticator or entering an OTP. In the Swift SDK it includes a function for requesting the next step in the flow.
- **Authenticator:** Represents an authenticator that's used to verify the identity of a user, such as Okta Verify.
- **Method:** Represents a channel for an authenticator, such as using SMS or voice for an authenticator that uses a phone. An authenticator may have zero or more methods.
- **Capability:** A user action associated with a remediation, authenticator, or method, such as requesting a new OTP or a password reset.

> - **Field:** Represents a UI element, either a static item, such as a label, or user input, such as a selection list. It includes properties for state information, such as whether the associated value is required. Properties also store the current value of user input field, such as the string for an OTP or the selected choice. A lists of choices, or **Options**, are represented by a collection of fields. A field may contain a form that contains more fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Field:** Represents a UI element, either a static item, such as a label, or user input, such as a selection list. It includes properties for state information, such as whether the associated value is required. A property also stores the current value of a user input field, such as the string for an OTP or the selected choice. A collection of fields, or **Options**, represents a list of choices. A field may contain a form that contains more fields.
```

Author: Change made, it will be in the next commit.

- **Form:** Contains the fields that represent the user action for a remediation.
- **InteractionCodeFlow:** Represents the session during the sign-in flow. In the Android SDK it includes the function for requesting the next step in the flow.

## Objects and the flow

<StackSnippet snippet="objectsandflow" />

## Manage the sign-in flow

> An object that manages the sign-in flow includes the following functionality:

Reviewer: Just a little unclear here. Is the object that you're referring to one that is in the SDK or one that you have to create? If it's prebuilt, what is it called? If it's not, could you revise this to something like "To create an object that manages the sign-in flow, it must include the following functionality;"

Author: How's this:

> To create an object that manages the sign-in flow, include the following functionality:

</div>

- **Response:** The top-level object that represents a step and contains all the other objects. It includes a property that indicates a successful sign-in and functions for cancelling the sign-in flow or retrieving the access token after the sign-in flow succeeds. A response may contain multiple authenticators and remediations.
- **Remediation:** Represents the main user actions for a step, such as enrolling in an authenticator or entering an OTP. In the Swift SDK it includes a function for requesting the next step in the flow.
- **Authenticator:** Represents an authenticator that's used to verify the identity of a user, such as Okta Verify.
- **Method:** Represents a channel for an authenticator, such as using SMS or voice for an authenticator that uses a phone. An authenticator may have zero or more methods.

> - **Capability:** A user action associated with a remediation, authenticator, or method, such as requesting a new OTP or a password reset.

Reviewer: Just a quick question: Does the Android SDK still have an Authenticator object at all? Assuming yes, but just thought I'd check.

Author: How's this:

> - **Capability:** Actions, information, or other functionality that is associated with a remediation, authenticator, or method. For example, requesting a new OTP, the requirements for the characters in a password, or the user's redacted email or phone number.

- **Field:** Represents a UI element, either a static item, such as a label, or user input, such as a selection list. It includes properties for state information, such as whether the associated value is required. A property also stores the current value of a user input field, such as the string for an OTP or the selected choice. A collection of fields, or **Options**, represents a list of choices. A field may contain a form that contains more fields.
- **Form:** Contains the fields that represent the user action for a remediation.
- **InteractionCodeFlow:** Represents the session during the sign-in flow. In the Android SDK it includes the function for requesting the next step in the flow.

## Objects and the flow

<StackSnippet snippet="objectsandflow" />

## Manage the sign-in flow

To create an object that manages the sign-in flow, include the following functionality:

- Initialize the flow.
- Start the sign-in.
- Process the response.
- Request a token.
- Sign the user out.

### Add the SDK

Before you can implement the manager you need to add the SDK to your project.

> <StackSnippet snippet="adddependency" />

Reviewer: Optional. In add dependency for Android it makes more sense to link to the list of actual releases in the SDK repo rather than the list of all tags. - https://github.com/okta/okta-idx-android/releases

Author: I'm going to leave it as tags as that was originally written by someone who knows Android/Kotlin. I'm assuming that a list of tags has some meaning for Android... I also looked at both pages (tag list and release list) and the tag list looked cleaner ;-).

The configuration information in a shipping app is usually static. You can initialize the configuration values directly in the code or read them from a file. During development you may want to provide a way to edit configuration values.

<StackSnippet snippet="initializeflow" />

> ### Start the sign-in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Start the sign-in flow
```

Author: Fixed in next commit.

Start the sign-in flow after initializing an `InteractionCodeFlow` object.

<StackSnippet snippet="initializingsdksession" />

### Process the response

The steps for processing each response are:

> 1. Check if the sign-in succeeded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check if the user signed in successfully.
```

Author: Agree it needs changing, but how about this:

> 1. Check for a successful sign-in.

Author: how about:
>Check for a successful sign-in flow.

> 

Reviewer: In the description for ClientID in the table above, if you want to be consistent, you should use "application integration" rather than "app integration".  

I guess Mobile apps are called apps rather than applications, so your call if you want to change the "app"s in the descriptions for RedirectURI and Scopes too.
